before that the Olympic swimming legend
who was so impressed London's Aquatic
Center he came out of retirement to
compete in the 2012 games Ian Thorpe
confirmed his comeback in February today
he spoke for the first time on camera
that why the center inspired him and the
risks that he's taking that he might
mess up his incredible Olympic legacy
Simon Harris went to meet him ian
thorpe's claim to fame is simple he's
Australia's greatest olympian me today
Thorpe is a man on a mission to get fit
and get back his winning ways at the
opening of a children's play area in
Hackney thought told me how a visit to
the London 2012 Aquatic Center finally
convinced him to go for gold once more
and told anyone this at this time and
when i went to the aquatic center and
you know i started to remember what it
was like to race in these things and you
know you could start to hear you know
the noise of the crowd and you know you
know what it feels like to compete and
no it was one of the things that
reinforce you know one of those you know
wonderful memories that i had of
competing and you know inspired me to
make the decision ian thought was just
17 when he won his first five Olympic
medals three gold two silver four years
later he collected two more golds a
silver and a bronze at the age of 24 he
announced his retirement but earlier
this year the thor pedo revealed he was
making a comeback it's tough there's no
two ways about it but you know it's it's
you know some days you know this feels
normal for me I did this for such a long
time and there's other other days where
it's like well this is a lot of hard
work you know it's a struggle
I know that he's a very good swimmer and
that he's won 11 medals think it's
amazing and how many methods is hot
still an incredible risk view you've got
a tremendous record and yet you could be
setting yourself up to fail absolutely
you know i think you know in me doing
this i put at risk kind of you know the
legacy that's created around the
performances that I had before and you
know and I'm well aware that you know
that I am doing that and you are excited
clearly about the London Olympic yeah I
you know coming to London is good for me
you know the last time I came here I
kind of convinced myself back into
swimming so maybe a few more trips to
London before the games to reclaim even
one Olympic title after the years of
retirement would be an extraordinary
achievement and if he and thought does
it will be all the more fitting that
it's in the very building which inspired
his return to the pool Simon Harris
London tonight in the olympic park now